V1.0.0 RC (#182)
OWASP/maswe: weaknesses/MASVS-CODE/MASWE-0040.md

---
title: Enforced Updating Not Implemented
id: MASWE-0040
alias: enforced-updating

> requirement: "The app terminates if an outdated app version is detected."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requirement: "The app takes action if an outdated app version is detected."
```
It shouldn't necessarily terminate. Informing the user that they need to update, and preventing them from using the app would work too.

Author: Please check resilience e.g. 0060 0056 to ensure we use the same wording.

platform: [android, ios]
profiles: [L2]
threat: MAS-THREAT-0040
attacks: [MAS-ATTACK-0040, MAS-ATTACK-0053]
mappings:
  masvs-v1: [MSTG-ARCH-9]
  masvs-v2: [MASVS-CODE-2]
  cwe: [602, 693]
  maswe-beta: [MASWE-0075]
refs:
- https://developer.android.com/guide/playcore/in-app-updates
- https://developer.android.com/reference/com/google/android/play/core/appupdate/AppUpdateManager
- https://medium.com/swlh/updating-users-to-the-latest-app-release-on-ios-ed96e4c76705
- https://gist.github.com/DineshKachhot/f63fcebceca6351fc982cafd38f6f05c
status: new
---

## Overview

> This weakness occurs when an app has no mechanism to force users onto a fixed version after a critical vulnerability is discovered, or when the update requirement is enforced only on the client side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This weakness occurs when an app has no mechanism to force users to update to a more secure version after a critical vulnerability has been remediated.
```
Removed the client-side aspect. If you're tampering with the client, you can send whatever app version to the server anyway.

> When a critical vulnerability is found in a production app, the developer needs a way to move the installed base to a patched version quickly. Platforms provide building blocks for this, such as Android In-App Updates (`AppUpdateManager`) and store version checks on iOS, but robust enforcement requires the backend to signal and enforce the minimum acceptable version: a purely client-side check can be bypassed by the very attackers it is meant to stop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a critical vulnerability is found in a production app, the developer needs a way to migrate existing users to the latest version as quickly as possible. Platforms provide building blocks for this, such as Android In-App Updates (`AppUpdateManager`) and store version checks on iOS, but robust enforcement requires the backend to signal and enforce the minimum acceptable version.
```

## Modes of Introduction

- **No Enforced-Update Mechanism**: Shipping the app without any in-app or enforced update flow, so vulnerable versions keep working indefinitely.

> - **Client-Side-Only Enforcement**: Enforcing the update requirement only in app code, without the backend rejecting requests from versions below the minimum supported one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Impact

- **Compromise of Sensitive Data**: Attackers can exploit already-fixed vulnerabilities against users stuck on old versions, resulting in exposure of user data long after a patch was published.

> - **Compromise of System Integrity and Business Operations**: The app owner cannot retire vulnerable versions from the installed base, resulting in a prolonged attack window, extended incident response, and continued abuse of backend services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Compromise of System Integrity and Business Operations**: The app owner cannot retire vulnerable versions from the installed base, resulting in a prolonged attack window.
```

## Mitigations

- **Implement an Enforced Update Flow**: Use platform mechanisms such as Android In-App Updates or a version check against the app store on iOS to require updating when a critical fix ships.

> - **Enforce the Minimum Version Server-Side**: Have the backend declare the minimum supported app version and reject requests from older clients, so bypassing the client-side prompt does not restore access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: ```suggestion
- **Enforce the Minimum Version Server-Side**: Have the backend declare the minimum supported app version and reject requests from older clients.
```
